So, here's the thing.
We have a regionName.
We have the Pokedex.
This all looks pretty good.
Except if we take a look at this actually,
and
let's say we wanted to
change the regionName.
This is actually pretty common.
So let's say we wanna say let's do an H2.
And this is a regionName.
There we go.
We see console here there we go.
Now it's not being clicked, okay?
So if you wanna change this you
might be thinking well, okay,
I know what I'm going to do.
I'm going to say inside of
will create a method here,
just to make things very clear.
In this has changed regionName.
And then this .regionName is gonna
be equal to Hoenn after this.
Alright, and then we're gonna
do is wanna create a button.
Actually now that's gonna be
at the bottom of a very long
list equals change regionName.
And then change regionName save.
Okay, so far, again, just to recap,
we wanna be able to change the regionName.
So we created a button that
runs its function that should,
as we've been practicing already,
just change canto to Owen.
So we say that and click.
You'll notice that nothing is happening.
And this might feel weird because after
all isn't this what we've been doing
this entire time?
The secrets of this lies in the fact that
what we talked about when we covered setup
which is that everything in
here is Vanilla JavaScript.
So what you're returning here,
while view will go ahead and register it
to the rest of the component, there's
no reactivity attached to it right now.
Because why?
It's a plain JavaScript const.
It's a constant.
And the same thing is
happening with Pokedex.
In other words, all the stuff that we were
talking about regarding reactive data,
computer properties,
that will not work with this.
Because at this point, it's not reactive.
So how do we bring some reactivity?
Well the way we do that is actually
by using view helper methods.
And so we mentioned that earlier were a
really popular thing that with view three
is the ability to parse out different
functions to kind of help people use it in
different context.
Well, there is a helper method for turning
something into a reactive reference.
And the way we do that
is we import from view.
And we D structure out
this method called ref.
Again, if you think of ref
think of reactive reference.
And so how does that work?
Well, what we do is we actually just
wrapped the value that we want to
be reactive inside of this
helper method that's what we do.
And so now if I refresh this and
we change it,
you'll notice it's now actually
being tracked by view.
And so this ref and a lot of the content
we'll be talking about is actually really
critical because going forward, whenever
you're working side of composition API,
you have to be very explicit about when
you want view to introduce metric.
And so this is actually one of the things
I do think that's beneficial to
the composition API is because now you
know exactly where view is coming in to
do things.
Whereas in the options API you could argue
that this context could be confusing for
JavaScript developers.
And what if they wanted to come in and
change some stuff right?
Composition API is your ability
to get at the primitives and
say okay this is stuff I wanna do and then
view do your magic for this kinda stuff.
And so for example right, if we wanted
to say let's actually have ability
to have like an all caps regionName.
Well, the way we can easily do that
is you can have a computed property.
That's how I would approach this.
So we'll say region all caps.
And actually, I'll just be more
specific region name all caps.
And what do we need how we
need a computed property.
And guess what the helper
method is computed.
So we have a computer property, but
what we need to do inside of our computer
property is we need to run a function.
Because we look back at our
other apps that use computed.
Let's go back into another
component that uses it.
You'll see that all of our computer
properties actually are functions,
which makes sense because they need to
run a computation on the things that
are dependencies.
So, we have an error function in here,
and what are we gonna do?
We gonna go ahead and we're gonna return,
just like we did before,
we're gonna return the region
name to uppercase.
This is probably our first instinct as
far as how we would make this work.
And so to make sure this works,
we've got to make sure we return
this to regionName all caps.
Just like that, and then let's go
ahead and expose that here as an H3.
RegionName of caps, just like that.
And we'll save.
And you might notice that well,
something's broken.
What's going on?
Well, it's in regionName but
to uppercase is not a function.
You might be thinking This is weird,
but RegionName is a string, right?
It's not.
Yeah, it's not a string anymore.
It is now a reactive reference, which
actually some of you have noticed when
you're doing the inspecting the element.
Let's go ahead and actually log regionName
at this point and see what we get.
If I refresh that, that's fine,
we get a massive error.
And you'll see things like
the ref implementation.
You also might have seen as well when
you're doing the options API you saw proxy
show up when you would log out a value.
And I know that was confusing for
some people because they're expecting
to just see what the value actually is.
But one of the big rewrites of view three
when it came to the reactivity engine is
that the jobs skip proxies underneath in
order to manage how all the dependencies
are being tracked.
And so again, you don't need to
understand how proxies work, for
you to be familiar with, or
basically to work with view.
But in case that's something
you're interested in,
I just wanted to give you sort of like
a little bit of a preview of that so
that you can always dive into that
if you wanna learn more about.
But you'll notice here that once again,
regionName is not a string.
What is it?
It's a rough implementation because
it's a reactive reference.
Meaning, the way we actually get to the
value of it is actually to basically think
of it as an object now.
It's an object that has the ability
to update it, its dependencies.
And so when we actually want to
access the raw value of a reference,
we have to actually unpack the thing.
And the way we do that
is by saying .value.
And you'll notice once you
do that everything works.
Now, this might feel a little bit
odd after using the options API for
a little while, because, after all in
the past are actually not even the past.
If we wanted to,
we could have theoretically created
a computer property at this level.
And just for
the sake of having comparison,
this will be regionName lowercase.
And so what we do here is return this
regionName .tolowercase just like that.
And then we'll just add
another H3 regionName.
All okay no it looks
like it's just lowercase.
Yeah okay save okay.
So, that happens to work.
Let me see.
Let me have a differentiator here.
There we go.
Okay, sentence case all case okay.
So you might be thinking, well,
this is way nicer, right?
Like, why do I want that value?
And I'll say when I first was
exposed to this, I would agree.
[LAUGH] It definitely feels odd.
But there is something to understand about
the reason why this is actually helpful.
Is because we do have to remember that
when you're working in vanilla JavaScript
it is important to be able to tell when
something is viewed when something is not.
And so we think about cons regionName.
The fact that you actually have to unpack
the value does signify to people that
when they're working with this particular
value that it's already attached to
the view reactivity.
That said, I wanted to give
you the pros of how people see
that because a lot people do like ref.
But in the event you're like,
I really don't like ref.
What you can do instead is you can do
this helper method called reactive.
And so what reactive is is basically
think of the data option from
the options API package in
a nice little helper function.
Because earlier there was a question
regarding around the fact that what if I
don't like the name data?
What if I wanna call it state?
Well, we can state,
it's a reactive object.
And inside of here,
let's just say I'll just do region two and
I actually don't know a third region.
It's fine okay I'll just do element
type I would say lightning okay?
So, when you're doing the state first
of all I'll go ahead and log out state.
What you end up getting is something
that looks like a lot more of
what people are probably expecting when
they're actually expecting element
which is the proxy.
This is what we've seen earlier when we
actually inspected the options API element
in that you have to look at the target
in order to get underneath it.
But what's nice about this now, is that,
again, this is gonna be misplaced,
but if we do
state.element.type.touppercase and
run it, you'll see it actually just works.
And so the way the thing of reactive is,
it's like a nicely packaged way of
collecting a rest together and that you
don't have to unpackage it with.value.
And so there are plenty of code
bases I've seen that people never
touch ref they'd like state or
sorry they like reactive.
Because reactive feels like composition or
sorry feels like options API, but
you're in the composition API's setting.
And so is there a right or
wrong way to do this?
Absolutely not.
So for the sake of having this example
also be here, I'm just gonna say element
type all caps, and then we'll make sure to
return this here, make it alphabetical.
And then I'll just make sure it's here.
And then we should be good okay.
So, there we have it.
This is the fundamentals
around composition API.
As far as the highlights to consider this,
once again,
is that you're now in
freeform JavaScript land.
So this is where I would
say comparing options,
API to composition API
is that options API,
you don't need as much JavaScript to
get up and running I would argue.
And I've seen that before with people who
have just enough to understand the syntax,
where because of this syntax, they were
able to just kind of get in there,
make some changes, make some swaps.
And the templating was easy enough that
people without a lot of JavaScript
experience could actually be
productive on a cool base.
With something like this, however,
when it comes to the composition API,
as you can see,
there's a lot more going on.
You need to understand helper functions.
You need to know about modules.
You need to go ahead and make sure if
you're using ref that it's a dot value,
that the skill cap jumps considerably
when it comes to the amount of jobs you
need to know in order to be
productive with competition API.